README.md, before:

# Scalable Interchangable Annotation Server (SIA)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Erechtheus/seth-tips.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Erechtheus/seth-tips)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

## Project description
SIA is an annotation service according to the BioCreative V.5. BeCalm task [TIPS](http://www.becalm.eu/files/material/BioCreative.V.5_CFP.pdf).
Annotations for mutation mentions are generated using [SETH](https://github.com/rockt/SETH), [mirNer](https://github.com/Erechtheus/mirNer), and diseases using a dictionary lookup. Results are returned in JSON according to these  [definitions](http://www.becalm.eu/files/schemas/jsonSchema.json). 


## Getting Started

> #### Note
> The system uses RabbitMQ to load balance, so make sure it is running locally before starting the application, refer to [how to install RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html) for help.

To start the system in development mode issue

    ./mvnw spring-boot:run

This starts the backend without submitting results to the tips server, instead results are printed to the console.
The server is listening on port `8080` per default.

### getAnnotation

Issue the following `curl` request to trigger a new annotation request

    curl -vX POST http://localhost:8080/call -d @src/test/resources/samplepayloadGetannotations.json --header "Content-Type: application/json"

### getStatus

To trigger a get status report, use the following `curl` request

    curl -vX POST http://localhost:8080/call -d @src/test/resources/sampleplayloadGetStatus.json --header "Content-Type: application/json"

#### close hanging requests

    curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d  '' http://www.becalm.eu/api/saveAnnotations/JSON?apikey={apikey}&communicationId={communicationId}


## Adding custom annotators
To extend SIA for additional Named Entity Recognition tools you have to:

* Implement the Annotator [interface](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/blob/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/annotator/Annotator.java)

Check examples in the corresponding [package](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/tree/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/annotator). 
For correct message routing, it is necessary to define input and output channel. Input channels can freely named, but the output channel requires the name "parsed". 
For example:

    @Transformer(inputChannel = "yourAnnotator", outputChannel = "parsed")

* Add the your annotator as recipient in [FlowHandler](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/blob/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/flow/FlowHandler.java#L169-L171) and set the [PredictionType](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/blob/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/domain/PredictionType.java) accordingly. 

For example:

    .recipient("yourAnnotator", "headers['types'].contains(T(de.dfki.nlp.domain.PredictionType).CHEMICAL)")

Commit message:

Have maven start rabbit mq

README.md, after:

# Scalable Interchangable Annotation Server (SIA)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Erechtheus/seth-tips.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Erechtheus/seth-tips)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

## Project description
SIA is an annotation service according to the BioCreative V.5. BeCalm task [TIPS](http://www.becalm.eu/files/material/BioCreative.V.5_CFP.pdf).
Annotations for mutation mentions are generated using [SETH](https://github.com/rockt/SETH), [mirNer](https://github.com/Erechtheus/mirNer), and diseases using a dictionary lookup. Results are returned in JSON according to these  [definitions](http://www.becalm.eu/files/schemas/jsonSchema.json). 


## Getting Started

> #### Note
> The system uses RabbitMQ to load balance, so make sure it is running locally before starting the application, refer to [how to install RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html) for help.

> If you want to skip the rabbit mq installation, for convenience, you can just start it via maven (this might not work on your machine)

>     ./mvnw rabbitmq:start

> And issue the following to tear down rabbit mq

>     ./mvnw rabbitmq:stop

To start the system in development mode issue

    ./mvnw spring-boot:run

This starts the backend without submitting results to the tips server, instead results are printed to the console.
The server is listening on port `8080` per default.

### getAnnotation

Issue the following `curl` request to trigger a new annotation request

    curl -vX POST http://localhost:8080/call -d @src/test/resources/samplepayloadGetannotations.json --header "Content-Type: application/json"

### getStatus

To trigger a get status report, use the following `curl` request

    curl -vX POST http://localhost:8080/call -d @src/test/resources/sampleplayloadGetStatus.json --header "Content-Type: application/json"

#### close hanging requests

    curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d  '' http://www.becalm.eu/api/saveAnnotations/JSON?apikey={apikey}&communicationId={communicationId}


## Adding custom annotators
To extend SIA for additional Named Entity Recognition tools you have to:

* Implement the Annotator [interface](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/blob/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/annotator/Annotator.java)

Check examples in the corresponding [package](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/tree/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/annotator). 
For correct message routing, it is necessary to define the input and output channel. Input channels can be freely named, but the output channel requires the name "parsed".
For example:

```java
@Transformer(inputChannel = "yourAnnotator", outputChannel = "parsed")
```

* Add the your annotator as recipient in [FlowHandler](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/blob/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/flow/FlowHandler.java#L169-L171) and set the [PredictionType](https://github.com/Erechtheus/sia/blob/master/src/main/java/de/dfki/nlp/domain/PredictionType.java) accordingly. 

For example:

```java
.recipient("yourAnnotator", "headers['types'].contains(T(de.dfki.nlp.domain.PredictionType).CHEMICAL)")
```

Here the `yourAnnotator` has to match the transformer `inputChannel` definition.
